The promise of deep learning is to discover rich, hierarchical models that represent probability
distributions over the kinds of data encountered in artificial intelligence applications, such as natural
images, audio waveforms containing speech, and symbols in natural language corpora. So far, the
most striking successes in deep learning have involved discriminative models, usually those that
map a high-dimensional, rich sensory input to a class label. These striking successes have
primarily been based on the backpropagation and dropout algorithms, using piecewise linear units
which have a particularly well-behaved gradient . Deep generative models have had less
of an impact, due to the difficulty of approximating many intractable probabilistic computations that
arise in maximum likelihood estimation and related strategies, and due to difficulty of leveraging
the benefits of piecewise linear units in the generative context. We propose a new generative model
estimation procedure that sidesteps these difficulties.

In the proposed adversarial nets framework, the generative model is pitted against an adversary: a
discriminative model that learns to determine whether a sample is from the model distribution or the
data distribution. The generative model can be thought of as analogous to a team of counterfeiters,
trying to produce fake currency and use it without detection, while the discriminative model is
analogous to the police, trying to detect the counterfeit currency. Competition in this game drives
both teams to improve their methods until the counterfeits are indistiguishable from the genuine
articles.
This framework can yield specific training algorithms for many kinds of model and optimization
algorithm. In this article, we explore the special case when the generative model generates samples
by passing random noise through a multilayer perceptron, and the discriminative model is also a
multilayer perceptron. We refer to this special case as adversarial nets. In this case, we can train
both models using only the highly successful backpropagation and dropout algorithms and
sample from the generative model using only forward propagation. No approximate inference or
Markov chains are necessary